Reflection

What I Found Conceptually Easiest

Understanding how vectors and lists work in R.

Mirroring Python by using the print function

Creating basic plots with plot() and customizing them with color and labels. This also happens to be something I enjoy regardless even when using Excel or other systems, charts excite me!

What I Found Most Challenging

Troubleshooting the ?mtcars help command and figuring out how to include it in the final output.

Remembering to close code chunks properly with three backticks, there were a couple times I was attempting to delete an extra row and accidentally brought the tickmarks to the end of a line of code and got an error when knitting.

Understanding which functions or commands I could place all on one line, and which ones I had to break into multiple lines as shown in the W3 tutorial. I attempted to avoid any copy and pasting, and was successful for the most part though I was still simply following the exact detail I viewed, and will work to understand this better as I improve.

What I Learned

R Markdown requires careful formatting to knit successfully.

HTML output is more flexible for links and visuals than PDF, my original file was in PDF, and I changed it to HTML only when my link in the summary for the ?mtcars problem, would not load properly (this could be over assimilation though based on something I tried and it not working with the PDF and then working fine in HTML).

Even small syntax errors (like a missing variable name or stray backtick) can halt execution—but they’re fixable with patience and attention.

What I’d Do Differently Next Time

Break the final product into multiple chunks, and run them periodically to ensure I can pinpoint errors right away.

If possible, find a way to clone or create redundancy in coding, though it was great practice, this was the second (actually third for most activities) time completing the same code due to incorrectly doing all coding in the console, as I had not read the instructions properly

Show a better conceptual understanding that once a value has been assigned, I do not need to repeatedly assign it unless that value is changing, many of the examples began with the value being assigned, but the same values were already assigned in prior example so though I was following the examples literally, I do not know that added anything but unnecessary lines of code that could be avoided.
